README.md, before:

# microfront-toolset

Microfrontend toolset

[![pipeline status](https://devrshb.tech:18443/public-core-solutions/micro-frontend/micro-frontend-core/badges/main/pipeline.svg?ignore_skipped=true)](https://devrshb.tech:18443/public-core-solutions/micro-frontend/micro-frontend-core/-/commits/main)
[![coverage report](https://devrshb.tech:18443/public-core-solutions/micro-frontend/micro-frontend-core/badges/main/coverage.svg)](https://devrshb.tech:18443/public-core-solutions/micro-frontend/micro-frontend-core/-/commits/main)

# How-to

```shell
$ yarn # Prepare
$ yarn build # Build all packages
$ yarn test # Test all packages
$ yarn workspace @redneckz/microfront-core build # Build specific package
$ yarn workspace @redneckz/microfront-core test # Test specific package
```

# Release Flow

https://yarnpkg.com/features/release-workflow

```shell
$ yarn version check --interactive
```

# Packages

[Micro Frontend Core Library](./packages/microfront-core/README.md)

[Micro Frontend Core Library for React](./packages/microfront-core-react/README.md)

[Micro Frontend Core Library for Vue2](./packages/microfront-core-vue2)

[Webpack Module Federation Utils](./packages/module-federation-utils/README.md)

# Containers Isolation

Remote modules should be isolated from each other in terms of `DOM/CSS/JS/API`.

`Shadow DOM` can be used to isolate `DOM/CSS`. `API` isolation could be achieved by means of `iframe` (sandbox). But `iframe` approach comes with a bunch of drawbacks.

Support of different isolation levels is the major feature of this lightweight framework ;)

Currently, only `Shadow DOM` isolation level is supported.

# Get Started

## Step #1 Install

Webpack 5 utils:

`$ npm install --save-dev @redneckz/module-federation-utils`

Micro frontend core:

`$ npm install --save @redneckz/microfront-core`

## Step #2 Migrate to Webpack 5

https://webpack.js.org/migrate/5/

## Step #3 Configure Module Federation Plugin

To share micro frontends across containers, Webpack Module Federation Plugin should be configured.

More info here https://webpack.js.org/concepts/module-federation/

### Host Container Configuration

Host container is a kind of orchestrator. It loads remote modules by means of Module Federation and places every module into a dedicated slot of the layout.

```js
const webpack = require('webpack');
const { moduleFederationOptions } = require('@redneckz/module-federation-utils');

module.exports = {
  output: {
    ...
    uniqueName: 'host',
    // "publicPath" is required and should depend on environment
    publicPath: 'https://host-domain/'
  },
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    new webpack.container.ModuleFederationPlugin(
      moduleFederationOptions({
        name: 'host',
        // Remote containers
        remotes: [
          ['foo', 'https://foo-domain'],
          ['bar', 'https://bar-domain']
        ]
      })
    ),
  ],
};
```

Also, please, move the `root` module into the separate `bootstrap` module to load it asynchronously.
For example:

`bootstrap.tsx`:

```tsx
// This line is required to configure core library isolation container
import '@redneckz/microfront-core/lib/configure';

import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { App } from './components/App';

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

`index.ts`:

```ts
import('./bootstrap');
```

### Micro Frontend Container Configuration

`publicPath` (from `webpack.output` section) is required to be configured. It should point out the actual origin of the MF container to make it remotely accessible. 
In the case of multiple environments (dev, pre-prod, prod, etc.) additional entry should be configured and named according to the MF container name.

```js
const webpack = require('webpack');
const { moduleFederationOptions } = require('@redneckz/module-federation-utils');
const { insertStyle } = require('@redneckz/microfront-core');

module.exports = {
  entry: {
    foo: resolve(__dirname, './src/setPublicPath.js'),
    ...
  },
  output: {
    ...
    uniqueName: 'foo',
    publicPath: '/'
  },
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    new MiniCssExtractPlugin({
      filename: '[name].css',
      // Custom insert can be declared in order to isolate micro frontends from each other
      // In context of host container styles should be inserted into mounting root
      // ! But this is not required anymore if your target browsers support MutationObserver API (all modern and IE11+)
      insert: insertStyle
    }),
    ...
    new webpack.container.ModuleFederationPlugin(
      moduleFederationOptions({
        name: 'foo',
        // These modules can be loaded by any host container
        exposes: {
          './foo-page': './src/pages/foo-page/foo-page.tsx',
          './other-page': './src/pages/other-page/other-page.tsx'
        }
      })
    ),
  ],
};
```

`setPublicPath.js` contains only one line of code which sets up the global webpack variable:

```js
__webpack_public_path__ = new URL(document.currentScript.src).origin + '/';
```

Also, please, move the `root` module into the separate `bootstrap` module to load it asynchronously. See "Host Container Configuration"

## Step #4 [React] Host Container

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { Redirect, Switch, Route } from 'react-router-dom';

import { register } from '@redneckz/microfront-core';
import { MicroFrontInShadow } from '@redneckz/microfront-core-react';

const bootstrapFoo = register(
    'foo', // remote module name according to Module Federation config
    () => import('foo/foo-page') //  remote module
);

export const App: React.FC = () => (
    <Switch>
        <Route path="path/to/foo">
            <MicroFrontInShadow route="path/to/foo" bootstrap={bootstrapFoo}>
                {mountingRootRef => <div ref={mountingRootRef}>Loading...</div>}
            </MicroFrontInShadow>
        </Route>
        ...
    </Switch>
);
```

## Step #4 [Angular] Host Container

TODO Implement @redneckz/microfront-core-angular

```ts
import { Component, NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { RouterModule, Routes } from '@angular/router';

import { register } from '@redneckz/microfront-core';
import { MicroFrontCoreModule } from '@redneckz/microfront-core-angular';

const bootstrapFoo = register(
    'foo', // remote module name according to Module Federation config
    () => import('foo/foo-page') //  remote module
);

@Component({
    // "microfront-in-shadow" is a part of "MicroFrontCoreModule"
    template: '<microfront-in-shadow route="path/to/foo" [bootstrap]="bootstrap"></microfront-in-shadow>'
})
export class FooInShadowComponent {
    bootstrap = bootstrapFoo;
}

const routes: Routes = [
    ...,
    {
        path: 'path/to/foo', // remote module root route
        children: [{
            path: '**',
            component: FooInShadowComponent
        }]
    }
];

@NgModule({
    declarations: [FooInShadowComponent],
    imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes), MicroFrontCoreModule],
    exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class AppRoutingModule {}
```

## Step #5 [React] Micro Frontend

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { render, unmountComponentAtNode } from 'react-dom';
import { Router } from 'react-router-dom';

import { container, MicroFrontModuleBootstrap } from '@redneckz/microfront-core';
import { Container } from '@redneckz/microfront-core-react';

// Each and every micro frontend should implement async "bootstrap" function
export const bootstrap: MicroFrontModuleBootstrap = async ({ route: rootRoute }) => {
    // Global stuff can be lazily loaded here
    const { App } = await import('./App');
    const { createBrowserHistory } = await import('history');

    // Relative to MF root route
    const history = createBrowserHistory({ basename: rootRoute });

    return {
        mount: async mountingRoot => {
            render(
                <Container instance={container()}>
                    <Router history={history}>
                        <App />
                    </Router>
                </Container>,
                mountingRoot
            );
        },
        unmount: async mountingRoot => {
            unmountComponentAtNode(mountingRoot);
        }
    };
};
```

It's very important to set up proper Url for backend endpoints. This Url isn't known while application is building.
So it should be defined at runtime. The approach is identical to the previously used for `publicPath`.

```ts
const backendRoot = document.currentScript && new URL((document.currentScript as HTMLScriptElement).src).origin;
```

## Step #6 Security

In most cases _host container_ and _micro frontends_ are distributed across different domains. To make communication between host container and micro frontends more secure we need to configure [Content Security Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) and [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

For example, https://svoefermerstvo.ru aggregates https://retail.rshb.ru

Requests from https://svoefermerstvo.ru to https://retail.rshb.ru (including API requests) should be blocked by the browser according to the default security policy.

It is necessary to configure security on both the host container side and the micro frontend side.

To explicitly allow any content from https://retail.rshb.ru configure _Content-Security-Policy_ for https://svoefermerstvo.ru

https://svoefermerstvo.ru/index.html example:

```html
<meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self' retail.rshb.ru;" />
```

To make the browser happy, configure CORS for https://retail.rshb.ru

https://retail.rshb.ru _NGINX_ config example:

```nginx
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' 'https://svoefermerstvo.ru';
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Methods' 'GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, HEAD, OPTIONS';
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Headers' 'X-Custom-Header';
add_header 'Access-Control-Expose-Headers' 'X-Custom-Header';
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Credentials' 'true';
```

In case of multiple host containers accessing the same micro frontend, _Origin_ echoing approach could be used:

```nginx
if ($http_origin ~* '^https://(svoefermerstvo|svoedom|svoe-selo|svoe-rodnoe|svoe-zagorodom)\.ru$') {
    add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' $http_origin;
}
```

# License

[MIT](http://vjpr.mit-license.org)

[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40redneckz%2Fmicrofront-core.svg
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/%40redneckz%2Fmicrofront-core
[build-image]: https://cloud.drone.io/api/badges/redneckz/microfront-core/status.svg
[build-url]: https://cloud.drone.io/redneckz/microfront-core
[coverage-image]: https://codecov.io/gh/redneckz/microfront-core/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=WMWRVVHT0C
[coverage-url]: https://codecov.io/gh/redneckz/microfront-core
[bundlephobia-image]: https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/min/@redneckz/microfront-core
[bundlephobia-url]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@redneckz/microfront-core

Commit message:

Update yarn 2 to the latest version and add Github actions

README.md, after:

# microfront-core

Microfrontend Core

[![NPM Version][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![Build Status][build-image]][build-url]
[![Coverage][coverage-image]][coverage-url]
[![Bundle size][bundlephobia-image]][bundlephobia-url]

# How-to

```shell
$ yarn # Prepare
$ yarn build # Build all packages
$ yarn test # Test all packages
$ yarn workspace @redneckz/microfront-core build # Build specific package
$ yarn workspace @redneckz/microfront-core test # Test specific package
```

# Release Flow

https://yarnpkg.com/features/release-workflow

```shell
$ yarn version check --interactive
```

# Packages

[Micro Frontend Core Library](./packages/microfront-core/README.md)

[Micro Frontend Core Library for React](./packages/microfront-core-react/README.md)

[Micro Frontend Core Library for Vue2](./packages/microfront-core-vue2)

[Webpack Module Federation Utils](./packages/module-federation-utils/README.md)

# Containers Isolation

Remote modules should be isolated from each other in terms of `DOM/CSS/JS/API`.

`Shadow DOM` can be used to isolate `DOM/CSS`. `API` isolation could be achieved by means of `iframe` (sandbox). But `iframe` approach comes with a bunch of drawbacks.

Support of different isolation levels is the major feature of this lightweight framework ;)

Currently, only `Shadow DOM` isolation level is supported.

# Get Started

## Step #1 Install

Webpack 5 utils:

`$ npm install --save-dev @redneckz/module-federation-utils`

Micro frontend core:

`$ npm install --save @redneckz/microfront-core`

## Step #2 Migrate to Webpack 5

https://webpack.js.org/migrate/5/

## Step #3 Configure Module Federation Plugin

To share micro frontends across containers, Webpack Module Federation Plugin should be configured.

More info here https://webpack.js.org/concepts/module-federation/

### Host Container Configuration

Host container is a kind of orchestrator. It loads remote modules by means of Module Federation and places every module into a dedicated slot of the layout.

```js
const webpack = require('webpack');
const { moduleFederationOptions } = require('@redneckz/module-federation-utils');

module.exports = {
  output: {
    ...
    uniqueName: 'host',
    // "publicPath" is required and should depend on environment
    publicPath: 'https://host-domain/'
  },
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    new webpack.container.ModuleFederationPlugin(
      moduleFederationOptions({
        name: 'host',
        // Remote containers
        remotes: [
          ['foo', 'https://foo-domain'],
          ['bar', 'https://bar-domain']
        ]
      })
    ),
  ],
};
```

Also, please, move the `root` module into the separate `bootstrap` module to load it asynchronously.
For example:

`bootstrap.tsx`:

```tsx
// This line is required to configure core library isolation container
import '@redneckz/microfront-core/lib/configure';

import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { App } from './components/App';

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

`index.ts`:

```ts
import('./bootstrap');
```

### Micro Frontend Container Configuration

`publicPath` (from `webpack.output` section) is required to be configured. It should point out the actual origin of the MF container to make it remotely accessible.
In the case of multiple environments (dev, pre-prod, prod, etc.) additional entry should be configured and named according to the MF container name.

```js
const webpack = require('webpack');
const { moduleFederationOptions } = require('@redneckz/module-federation-utils');
const { insertStyle } = require('@redneckz/microfront-core');

module.exports = {
  entry: {
    foo: resolve(__dirname, './src/setPublicPath.js'),
    ...
  },
  output: {
    ...
    uniqueName: 'foo',
    publicPath: '/'
  },
  ...
  plugins: [
    ...
    new MiniCssExtractPlugin({
      filename: '[name].css',
      // Custom insert can be declared in order to isolate micro frontends from each other
      // In context of host container styles should be inserted into mounting root
      // ! But this is not required anymore if your target browsers support MutationObserver API (all modern and IE11+)
      insert: insertStyle
    }),
    ...
    new webpack.container.ModuleFederationPlugin(
      moduleFederationOptions({
        name: 'foo',
        // These modules can be loaded by any host container
        exposes: {
          './foo-page': './src/pages/foo-page/foo-page.tsx',
          './other-page': './src/pages/other-page/other-page.tsx'
        }
      })
    ),
  ],
};
```

`setPublicPath.js` contains only one line of code which sets up the global webpack variable:

```js
__webpack_public_path__ = new URL(document.currentScript.src).origin + '/';
```

Also, please, move the `root` module into the separate `bootstrap` module to load it asynchronously. See "Host Container Configuration"

## Step #4 [React] Host Container

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { Redirect, Switch, Route } from 'react-router-dom';

import { register } from '@redneckz/microfront-core';
import { MicroFrontInShadow } from '@redneckz/microfront-core-react';

const bootstrapFoo = register(
    'foo', // remote module name according to Module Federation config
    () => import('foo/foo-page') //  remote module
);

export const App: React.FC = () => (
    <Switch>
        <Route path="path/to/foo">
            <MicroFrontInShadow route="path/to/foo" bootstrap={bootstrapFoo}>
                {mountingRootRef => <div ref={mountingRootRef}>Loading...</div>}
            </MicroFrontInShadow>
        </Route>
        ...
    </Switch>
);
```

## Step #4 [Angular] Host Container

TODO Implement @redneckz/microfront-core-angular

```ts
import { Component, NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { RouterModule, Routes } from '@angular/router';

import { register } from '@redneckz/microfront-core';
import { MicroFrontCoreModule } from '@redneckz/microfront-core-angular';

const bootstrapFoo = register(
    'foo', // remote module name according to Module Federation config
    () => import('foo/foo-page') //  remote module
);

@Component({
    // "microfront-in-shadow" is a part of "MicroFrontCoreModule"
    template: '<microfront-in-shadow route="path/to/foo" [bootstrap]="bootstrap"></microfront-in-shadow>'
})
export class FooInShadowComponent {
    bootstrap = bootstrapFoo;
}

const routes: Routes = [
    ...,
    {
        path: 'path/to/foo', // remote module root route
        children: [{
            path: '**',
            component: FooInShadowComponent
        }]
    }
];

@NgModule({
    declarations: [FooInShadowComponent],
    imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes), MicroFrontCoreModule],
    exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class AppRoutingModule {}
```

## Step #5 [React] Micro Frontend

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { render, unmountComponentAtNode } from 'react-dom';
import { Router } from 'react-router-dom';

import { container, MicroFrontModuleBootstrap } from '@redneckz/microfront-core';
import { Container } from '@redneckz/microfront-core-react';

// Each and every micro frontend should implement async "bootstrap" function
export const bootstrap: MicroFrontModuleBootstrap = async ({ route: rootRoute }) => {
    // Global stuff can be lazily loaded here
    const { App } = await import('./App');
    const { createBrowserHistory } = await import('history');

    // Relative to MF root route
    const history = createBrowserHistory({ basename: rootRoute });

    return {
        mount: async mountingRoot => {
            render(
                <Container instance={container()}>
                    <Router history={history}>
                        <App />
                    </Router>
                </Container>,
                mountingRoot
            );
        },
        unmount: async mountingRoot => {
            unmountComponentAtNode(mountingRoot);
        }
    };
};
```

It's very important to set up proper Url for backend endpoints. This Url isn't known while application is building.
So it should be defined at runtime. The approach is identical to the previously used for `publicPath`.

```ts
const backendRoot = document.currentScript && new URL((document.currentScript as HTMLScriptElement).src).origin;
```

## Step #6 Security

In most cases _host container_ and _micro frontends_ are distributed across different domains. To make communication between host container and micro frontends more secure we need to configure [Content Security Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) and [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

For example, https://svoefermerstvo.ru aggregates https://retail.rshb.ru

Requests from https://svoefermerstvo.ru to https://retail.rshb.ru (including API requests) should be blocked by the browser according to the default security policy.

It is necessary to configure security on both the host container side and the micro frontend side.

To explicitly allow any content from https://retail.rshb.ru configure _Content-Security-Policy_ for https://svoefermerstvo.ru

https://svoefermerstvo.ru/index.html example:

```html
<meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self' retail.rshb.ru;" />
```

To make the browser happy, configure CORS for https://retail.rshb.ru

https://retail.rshb.ru _NGINX_ config example:

```nginx
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' 'https://svoefermerstvo.ru';
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Methods' 'GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, HEAD, OPTIONS';
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Headers' 'X-Custom-Header';
add_header 'Access-Control-Expose-Headers' 'X-Custom-Header';
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Credentials' 'true';
```

In case of multiple host containers accessing the same micro frontend, _Origin_ echoing approach could be used:

```nginx
if ($http_origin ~* '^https://(svoefermerstvo|svoedom|svoe-selo|svoe-rodnoe|svoe-zagorodom)\.ru$') {
    add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' $http_origin;
}
```

# License

[MIT](http://vjpr.mit-license.org)

[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/%40redneckz%2Fmicrofront-core.svg
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/%40redneckz%2Fmicrofront-core
[build-image]: https://github.com/redneckz/microfront-core/actions/workflows/build-test.yml/badge.svg
[build-url]: https://github.com/redneckz/microfront-core/actions/workflows/build-test.yml
[coverage-image]: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/redneckz/microfront-core/badge.svg?branch=main
[coverage-url]: https://coveralls.io/github/redneckz/microfront-core?branch=main
[bundlephobia-image]: https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/min/@redneckz/microfront-core
[bundlephobia-url]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@redneckz/microfront-core
